This is the catalogue room?
Yes, for the printed books.
Okay.
So you still have printed books here?
Yes.
Even though most of them since the 18th century.
But there you have the catalogue of the manuscripts.
Here of the printed books because the library
I had all the most important scientific goals to search because the idea is to have the manuscripts and then the instruments, the books, the search on the manuscripts.
Here you have the new and handsome catalogue with the scientific works.
Are you online yet on the computer?
No, this is available.
Now only for
but it is the place for the future to have internet and also and with the whole also the
The library, the national library system with... Together?
Yes, excellent.
Like in nationality.
Who operates this library?
Is this one by the government?
Is this part of the... No, no, there is a public library.
It's a public library.
And it is public from the time of the opening in 1571.
Really?
Today.
And it is the property of the state.
Excellent.
It's a public library, isn't it?
Public, but only for readers, for scholars.
Yes.
But it's open.
It's open to public, but you need the special lectures where you write the object of your search and also the stabbing department.
but not for the university professors.
The history of the library.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
You can just write down your name so I can thank you properly.
I want to write down your name so I can thank you properly.
I'll know me.
Okay, very good.
Thank you.
Now we are going to make electricity, a new electricity, and they are stored for this.
And also the restoration, for example, and the director role here is a new one.
Absolutely.
They are referring with the flash of the end of 18th century.
And this is, it is referring to
for the new system of security.
Security, electrical, everything together.
How old are these paintings on the wall, these murals?
How old are they?
It is of the end of 18th century.
18th century.
Allora, andiamo a vedere... No, no, ma questo è troppo disordinato, davvero, non è possibile.
Ecco, e... non è una cosa interessante.
Andiamo nel cuore di mostro.
No, no, no, no.
Now we're going to the laboratory for restoring the books.
It's important.
You do that right here, the restoration.
We have your own facilities.
who worked here in 1966.
This was all designed by Michelangelo?
No, no, this is designed by Michelangelo also but realised in the 15th century.
Permesso?
Allora, buongiorno.
Sono questi giudicatori, questi sono i nostri bravissimi tecnici, questo professore ha scritto un articolo, ha scritto delle altre cose, eccetera.
and comes to have an idea of the work of the library.
We are a bit in confusion.
But you can see a picture of the library?
Yes, these are modern books.
Yes, yes.
And then we will go to the library.
They're working on a manuscript right now.
This is the whole page of this manuscript
Not very good, and then you have full page, they can all that.
If you don't want, it's okay.
What's it, what's it?
Because the librarians can say this in Greek, my name is Chris.
has reconstructed all the pages, the one, the work, the special work for the librarian.
How old is the revolution?
Oh, this is the XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
We need the original order of the page and even if it's not corrected, the page one and then page three and then page four, it's a mess.
He's collating it.
How old is that binding?
That's it, it's original.
Of the end of the 16th century, by the time.
That's amazing.
So this library, you said from this library originally?
The little book I did you.
The little book I did.
The book what?
Oh, yes.
We have the little book I... Dove?
Where is it?
Yes, I have it in there.
She said the history is... Yes, I have it.
All right.
This book?
Well, this book is in there?
This book may be in here.
I see.
For you, yes.
Thank you so much.
All right.
That's exciting.
Yes, because you can see in this photograph how the books were stored at the opening of the library.
Because you have the decks of the Granada by the Granada, and there are the enchanted books with the iron chain at that time.
Let's get some of those.
Page 12, it is one of the 3,000 manuscripts, original manuscripts of the library, page 12 and the brochure.
Oh, you had an exposition in 1971 to commemorate the 400th anniversary.
Wonderful.
Must have been wonderful to talk about the 17th century.
This is very helpful.
Wonderful.
Thank you.
Do they have reproductions of the book for studies of scholars?
Yes, it's possible.
We have laboratories for
The miniature is in color, or in black, in white and black.
Yes.
Nicky was going to do reproductions for study.
Oh, good.
Oh, yes.
That's very important.
Oh, Lord.
We have the microfilm of all our manuscripts.
All the manuscripts are on microfilm for study.
Very good.
That's extraordinary.
It's right here in the book.
This is pretty heavy.
Right there.
It's quite beautiful, breathtaking.
You had a lot of the work yesterday.
Yesterday was... Before the construction of the library,
There were only these, the first cloister.
Oh, so this was in addition to the library?
Yes, Michelangelo.
Yes, he did.
This was the original up to that roof, and then Michelangelo made the library up to design.
It's very, it is more than 45 meters.
More than 45 meters long.
The vertical part is ricetto or invaso.
And that's enough for sure.
It is the waiting moment before to enter in the salon where you have the collection of the manuscripts.
The salon is there and you have the three closed windows, it is the festival.
the ricetto or invaso, like in the Hanson Temple, you have the festival for waiting and then entering the sound.
And that's where the three windows are boarded?
Yes.
That skylight up there, was that part of the original design?
No, this is by, this is of the Sala Delci on the right, and Sala constructed open in 1841, but we can see after, but it is not.
A lot of history is she pointed out.
First edition classic, that's the only collection of Noah Knight.
It's Pasquale Porciante.
Design and consult at Tribune, next to Michelangelo's Menry in Rome.
So, you're always constantly renovating with the electrical systems?
Yes, yes.
Madam has said because we have these works and then it is not so beautiful to see.
There is an exhibition on Cathedral's book, the library of the cathedral.
There is a story here between the Lord.
This is the recheck.
We have started my disease for restorating and controlling
The sealant is of the end of the 18th century.
The end of the 18th century?
Yes, because Michelangelo has made it only just to the columns.
You can see the Michelangelo's path.
Michelangelo's?
Yes, the columns and just to the columns.
Because the windows are...
of the end of the 19th century.
This is Michelangelo.
Made it by Amman Nassim in 1959 but on design and on a little model
by Mechangelo.
Lost them.
They have lost a little more than I lost them.
And did they keep the books up there because they designed it because they were the books and kept?
No, no.
Because we have now, we have not the designs, but also at the time the Mechangelo has changed this little model.
But,
They are Michelangelo new and they can learn a collection for the books.
This is the library of Michelangelo.
Here.
Wow.
Underneath, yes.
They changed.
Changed close to the aircraft.
Oh.
And the endocathalas.
I can't watch.
I can't watch on the side of the bench.
Because it would work.
Now the most...
the most ancient, completed manuscripts by Virgilio.
This is the Virgilio Colbert Field by 493, 493.
It is the most ancient, complete in the world.
It is a notebook.
I don't know what you're saying.
This is lime.
But it is... Okay, it's 11.
Install your card.
This is the terra cotta floor.
Beautiful.
Do you see how many people came here?
When?
In the opening period of the 5th, 600...
It was like a little, little, little, little academy.
Because we were in Spanish clips, we were used by the humanity, like Poliziano and Pico della Miranda, but...
before the opening of the lab and to collect in.
Yes, many manuscripts.
When Poliziano was there, were discovered in the house of these humanists.
Poliziano studied them and made his notes of the manuscripts.
It's the oldest codex now that the library is always needed.
It's virtual?
Well, it's as well as Assyrian, the Gospel, on page 13 of the book.
And then you have the same mask in the New Sacrifice by Michelangelo, but for Michelangelo it's the idea
of the test.
This is the name, this is bucranio.
And what is that?
This is the head of the sacrified animals because in the imperial Roman
You have the coins, the corner of the tables in the temple, you have the head of these animals.
And the name in Mr. Vars is Bukranio.
Bukranio?
The scone.
It looks like an antelope or something?
No, it's a Terracotta.
E quello è tipicamente classico, come è anche la corona di alloro.
It's a classic display.
Like the laurel in the synagogue.
The laurel is also a traditional classic.
Yes.
But you can say that also, not only in the Roman age, but also in the Greek.
In the Greek, it's classical.
What does that say that's in Greek?
In 1841 the sala is opened
for the Delci collection, the collection of Incunaboli, the first printed books before Gutenberg, that they make Delci and give a present to the library.
That was in 18... 18?
No, ma... e... e... dopo, dopo.
It is after.
Sì, after.
Sì, ma questo non è tanto preciso.
This is designed by Pasquale Porciante, an architect of the 19th century where it works in Tuscany for example in
Viburna, the port of the Toscane, the neoclassical architects, the Cicternone and Cicternina, and then all of them.
because in Liburn in the port of the Toshka you have like this
but only the middle part of this, and it is not inside the building, but outside the building.
So it mimics the port design?
Poccianti was the whole system for the water in Liburno.
So for the Cisternone and the Cisternino and the little
building for the water and the building for the water, that is the two buildings for this water system, this town.
From the hills to the hills, because the hills on the sea and then.
This one,
Yes, yes, yes.
We have lots of books.
He writes for various magazines and his own books.
And I'll visit today for his research for his book on libraries.
Because I don't know if there are also a CD-ROM, but it is not, I don't know.
This is the first time you are in.
Oh, it's beautiful.
I think we're in Milano.
Oh, this is L'Ambrosiano.
Fantastic.
Wonderful.
I wish we had more time to stay.
Tomorrow we leave, actually, we leave the room this afternoon to see another live day.
Is that a commentary?
No, no.
Did you see the little character again?
No.
Is that here in Florence?
We were talking about the nationality.
What time were we leaving?
I think we're leaving on the 3.30, 4 o'clock train for Rome.
We will go to the rica andiana, it's very beautiful.
The Ricardiana is near.
It is very beautiful.
It is very important to go in.
It is just near.
Is it open?
In the afternoon.
In the morning.
You can go now.
Now in 12 o'clock.
It's closed.
It's open at 12 o'clock.
It's open now and... Until 12?
Until 14.
Okay.
And the Bibliotech National, is that something to go see?
In the afternoon.
But for the hand dance of the library, the discipline of the library is more beautiful the Ricardiana than the National.
Yes, but after we can see the name and also where it is.
We don't know what.
And it's closed.
No, it is open and it is just near.
It's near.
Very good, we will go.
It is in the Medici Riccardi Palace.
Riccardiana, because this was the library of the Riccardi family.
Riccardi, they must have been a very noble family.
Before the Medici, before the Medici.
Because the medicine is the person, the hand, and the most important person of the family in the 15th century has built on this company in Australia.
There was a medicine that was repellent in that life in the 1230s, and they had a great experience for them.
L'ha visto lei?
No.
Eh sì, infatti io mi sono pensata, ma ormai questa famiglia, mercanti, mercanti, ma erano politici, perché se... Dal 1800 allora eh.
Eh, nel 1800.
E di solito che si dice, che cos'è la vecchia, dopo l'esilio, nel 1450.
Perché anche se, poi aveva le sue belle palle, ecco, quindi anche se era un ramo, comunque era loro.
Look.
The director and David had suggested another library that's very close.
They're going to write down the name.
They say it's old.
It predates this.
This is near in the Madison Riccardi Palace.
This is the library.
The name is Riccardiana.
And the madam has said that it is most beautiful to go in the Ricardiana, to the history of the library in Florence, then in Nazionale.
If you want, madam, to call the director of Ricardiana.
That would be wonderful.
Grazie, grazie.
This is an exhibition for reconstructing the history of a library, the cathedral library.
Another library for you.
A library that had to be a public library in Florence, a library of the Catalina.
It was mainly in 1441, 1445, the idea, the project for this library.
Is it considered an ecclesiastical library?
It's a good question.
She had a collection of books for the liturgical mass and prayers, and also a collection of cultural books, historian books in Latin and poetical books.
And what was her name?
It was a woman?
the name of the library of Santa Maria del Fiore.
And now this exhibition has collected all manuscripts of
Where is the storage area down below?
The storage area for the manuscripts.
Where do you store the manuscripts?
Who?
No.
Where do you store and keep the manuscripts?
The new library is downstairs.
You have the manuscripts that were stored here.
For security system.
And from 1907 to 1907, the manuscripts were engineered.
Until 1907.
As recently as 1907 they were here.
And the Sala Delci to 1968 was the studying room.
After also the study room has made it in downstairs here.
So the study room was here until 1968?
Yes, but in Saladel.
I see.
And this room is constructed for a collection, a collection of manuscripts, who came here at the end of 19th century, and now it is the exhibition part of the library.
Yes, it is by Florentine fabric, made in the middle of the 16th century, but not this disease by Goblin.
Disease of 1661, the Goblin is founded in Paris.
Allora, here it is.
This is a biblioteca.
This is the biblioteca di Santa Maria del Fiore.
They were the consul.
of the Arte della Rana, the society for the wool, the arms of the society for the wool products.
But they were also humanists.
The name is Abianchi Girari.
Bianchi is white and Girari is thorn.
Yes, I understand.
That's the other library you were talking about.
This is a manuscript of two hundred centuries with the letters by sample
It's very interesting because you have the text, and the commentary, and the notes.
The Hams.
It is the Hams of the Inghyrami Cardinal who had many, many manuscripts
very expensive, very rare.
He was an archbishop and like the other archbishops, he had a library like all cultural men.
The name is?
Cardinale, Gimignano, Indiano.
Cardinale.
I see.
and he has given the present of his manuscript in his testament to the cathedral's library.
Okay, he willed it in his pen.
Yes.
Okay.
This is the arms of Casini Cardinals, who came to Siena, then came to Florence and left his manuscript to the cathedral library.
This is from the Becchi family family, another cardinal.
And here, this is the Cotto Farm of the Becchi Semile, he left the manuscript to the Laurenz, to the Bibbia Session.
That's the note of the poem.
That's the beautiful poem poem.
That's the poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem poem
Madame has said that these books were located by Pilates, Petrarch,
These are the books that they notice?
Yes, because a specialized search on the dark has said that it's perhaps the hand of the dark.
It is amazing how they endure the clouds.
What about these dates?
It is very important to know in this period
the laws, the civil laws, but also the laws in the church, the church laws.
You have the index of this, yeah.
Graziano was an Agostinian monk.
Was this building part of the building that Michelangelo was there?
No, no, no.
It's at the end of 19th century.
What is the name of this article you speak?
Well, we can buy it the same place.
I'd like to add light about it.
It's in the forest.
And there's the lamb again for the...
The shape of the art of the lana.
Look at the wool arts.
The wool arts.
The gold.
It's true that this is the Opera of the Duomo.
Opera of the Duomo, Cathedral of Science.
This is made in the collaboration of the Opera.
It's beautiful, and he's got the same name.
And what did that incorporate?
Was it things made of wool fabrics?
the fabric, the producer of war, and the power for the economic power of New York, and then, what's that?
The lana, that's not bad, started in 1996.
... ... ... ... ... ... ...
When you say wool arts, could that also be translated as textiles?
No, no, no, it's different.
No, no, no, no.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
and for working in Florence, the Middle Ages,
For all workers it is necessary to have a heart.
Yes, it was very important in Firenze, because in that time, the Stoffe of Firenze went to Europe.
The Wall of Florence in that age came in all of Europe.
These books celebrate these arts or explain these arts.
This is not direct celebration of this art, but if you put the hands of the land, it is a sort of auto-celebration.
But when the cathedral is constructed, the new cathedral, the gothic cathedral,
L'arte della lana aiutò economicamente.
Many, a lot of money for the construction.
It's like an interesting lesson.
I understand.
The wool heart?
For the wool heart it is a big honor to pay for the construction of the cathedral.
the chips of the art of the lana, of the whole lana, who were humanists and historians.
It is not only the merchants on the fire and stuff.
And in fact, you say to the chapter of the lather,
I'm afraid I'm alone.
The Charter of the Library.
And there's the Lamb again.
Writed by Giannozzo Maletti, who was consul of Woolhart, but also humanist.
Marzupini was a historian.
It was a cultural connection, a civil connection.
Where the...
It is important the religious motive for the construction of the catheter, but it is most important to be a man of this corporation, of the wall of the house.
But important is it is not only a merchant but also a humanist, historic culture.
Because the religious motive is very important but it is a thing of every man, individual things.
And the cattedrale reassume also the city.
And the cathedral represents town.
The cathedral represented the whole town, the whole city of Florence.
This is the original charter of this library.
No, no, of this library.
Do you want to translate that?
Okay.
But they have in the catalog the whole book that's exposed in the catalog.
I'm going to get the catalog.
How long is the exhibition now?
It is very interesting.
The library of Santa Maria del Fiore is as far as that in the 17th century.
and many ghosts are distracted by the fire and others where they don't make it life.
But you were able to save a few fragments from them.
This is before the restoration.
That's a terrific restoration.
It is important to make an idea
for the restoration of the manuscript, what is the importance of the certificate.
He has restorated it here, because it is the Edili collection, because when, in the 18th century, the collection of the Capitanes came here, he has named it Edili, the Edili collection.
The Edili was in the Roman age, the consul for the construction, and then the name
who was also named for the opera, the operari, operari workers of the cathedra, it is a name, classical name, important name.
Edificare.
Edificare, yes.
The consul, the magistrati.
Romani, delle Romani Magistrature, erano edili.
Edili, yes.
And do you always have an exhibition in here?
We have had the most important exhibition of the Father of the Father.
One every year.
One or two, I mean.
Are these, these are all from the collections here?
Yes, but
All books were in the cathedral.
But not all now are in the laurentziana library.
For example, I have some of the corals are in the laurentziana but other are in the opera del Duomo near the green tree.
Because there were 23 chorals in the Opera del Duomo near the cathedral but in 1966 the Arno has distracted the river.
But we have only three now.
These box originally were out in the English of the CNES.
Ah, no, no, no.
Dove è stato stato originariamente.
No, ma ha chiesto dove erano... Questi si trovavano nella sala dove siamo passati, ma gli ho detto di no.
No, no, no.
Questi no.
Nella sala solo i plutei.
Only the name is Pluto, like you have to see the laboratory, one of these with the iron chain.
The name of this collection is Pluto because Pluto is the name of the desk for the original system of conservating the books.
Not only for reading the book.
Pluto is the name of the new desk?
No, the desk.
The desk.
And now the collection is Pluto.
The collection, for example, when... Yes, Pluto.
Is that a Greek or a Latin word?
And it means... And it's called the collection.
Those are the collections.
Is that in the catalog?
Oh, good.
Extra, very good.
Oh, it's also page 11 and the kettlebell.
That's a great thing for you.
Yes.
This is wonderful.
This is very good.
Did you see this DNA in the coffee of DNA?
Excuse me?
This is a coffee of DNAde with the two types of DNAde.
Oh my goodness, beautiful.
to type of stuff for the native.
At least tapestry is always here, or has it just been in the Methodist exhibition?
Yes.
All right, so there is this, but it is not for the native.
But I will tell you.
Many of these manuscripts are still here, or has it just been in the Methodist exhibition?
Yes.
All right, so there is this, but it is not for the native.
But I will tell you.
Many of these manuscripts are still here.
All right, so this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this,
This is the family of Vespucci.
The discoverer of the man whose name is America.
Vespucci?
Vespucci.
He had many manuscripts printed and manuscript.
This is designed by Giorgio Antonio Vespucci.
This is a little corvary for the honing
who make the honey, the name is in English, the little insects who make... The bee, the honeybee.
Oh, a baby.
Oh, because the name, they speak, right?
That's right, they speak, the honeybee, yes.
He said the honeybee is on his coat of arms, that's what the name means.
Oh, they are, okay.
They're not saying that I can thank you, no one of these.
And what is the bee?
The bee, honey bee.
This is honey bee.
I see, I see.
Also the bee have three, for the bird, bee called bee.
And bee is many bee.
Bigs and then you have in the ham street bigs.
That's what I'm talking about.
This is by Vespucci.
No, this is by Vespucci.
Vespucci.
Liber Donatus, Giorgio Antonio Vespucci.
This is the four lines you have been in Giorgio Antonio Vespucci.
This is fine.
No, it's not that one.
Vespucci always wrote on his books and also in Latin.
to the start of the books, an invocazione for a lecture.
Is this a miracle of his book?
No, no, this is family.
It is the son of his brother.
This is the words to the start of the books.
I don't say in Italian, I say in Bocat.